## 1. In the mutex-locking pseudocode of Figure 4.10 on page 111, there are two consecutive steps that remove the current thread from the runnable threads and then unlock the spinlock. Because spinlocks should be held as briefly as possible, we ought to consider whether these steps could be reversed, as shown in Figure 4.28 [on page 148]. Explain why reversing them would be a bad idea by giving an example sequence of events where the reversed version malfunctions.

 Reversing these steps would be a bad idea because if a thread doesn’t be removed from the runnable threads before unlocking the spinlock, it would execute the same thread from runnable threads over again after unlocking. Suppose that thread A decreases a seat remaining in a sell ticket procedure. If it doesn’t remove itself from the runnable threads before unlocking, it will run again and result in inaccurate counts in seat remaining.

## 6. Assume a page size of 4 KB and the page mapping shown in Figure 6.10 on page 225. What are the virtual addresses of the first and last 4-byte words in page 6? What physical addresses do these translate into?

 The virtual address of the first and last 4-byte words in page 6 are 12288 and 16380 respectively. To get the physical addresses, multiply the addresses by 4096. These translate into the physical addresses 24576 and 28668 respectively.

## 9. Figure 7.20 [page 324] contains a simple C program that loops three times, each time calling the fork() system call. Afterward it sleeps for 30 seconds. Compile and run this program, and while it is in its 30-second sleep, use the ps command in a second terminal window to get a listing of processes. How many processes are shown running the program? Explain by drawing a family tree of the processes, with one box for each process and a line connecting each (except the first one) to its parent.

 There are 8 processes from the C program, 2 processes from bash. 10 total processes.
 
